;; SQL/ODBC module for MCL, LWW and ACL
;; (C) Paul Meurer 1999
;; paul.meurer@hit.uib.no

Release notes for version 0.85
25.10.1999

1. Some minor bug fixes

2. Enhancements:

- Support for SQL_BINARY datatype
- new function: db-data-sources (gets list of all available data sources from driver)
- odbc::get-odbc-info accepts all info codes
- Small changes to make MySQL/MyODBC work. Tested on NT and (not by me) on Linux.

Release notes for 0.83:

Fixes and enhancements for its use with the SQL authentication support in CL-HTTP

Release notes for 0.82:

Bug fixes in 0.8

Release notes for 0.8:

1. Bug fixes:
   -  A serious memory leak found and fixed.
   -  WITH-TRANSACTION works everywhere.
   -  Data sizes > +max-precision+ works (but see Problems below).

2. Changes:
   - The SQL-EXP and SQL packages are merged.
   - Instead of use-module, in LW and ACL, their respective defsystems are used.
   - The directory structure is changed.
   - Renamed functions (for more consistent terminology: a statement is a query if
      it returns a result set, else a command):
     query -> execute-query
     prepare-command -> prepare-statement
     with-prepared-command -> with-prepared-statement
   - The QUERY slot in DATABASE objects is no longer used.

3. Support for ACL/Linux 5.0 (and very probably other Unices)

4. Thread-safe command execution. (It is guaranteed that no two threads share an active QUERY object.)

5. Support for long datatypes.
   A stream protocol (conformant with the Gray streams proposal) for reading and writing long (character and binary) data.

6. Prepared and parameterized select statements.

7. A generic command syntax for SQL constructs not covered elsewhere. 

8. Misc. enhancements:
   - More info on available databases and drivers for Macintosh and Linux
   - DO-QUERY handles &REST variables.
   - Some SQL commands and operators added. 
   - Outside of [...], symbols beginning with ? are read with the standard readtable.

Problems:

There are problems with the InterSolve (DataDirect) drivers wich apparently are
connected to the fact that they return "Y" for info type $SQL_NEED_LONG_DATA_LEN.
In MCL, SQLPutData very often reports a "Data truncated" error or plainly crashes the machine. I have no clue why.
This has as consequence that long types (and varchar(n) with n sufficiently high) do not work properly with those drivers.

Help is appreciated.

Paul Meurer